Adds valkey-json module commands documentation to the website. (#243)
valkey-io/valkey-doc: topics/valkey-json.md

---
title: "Valkey-JSON"
description: >
    Introduction to Valkey-JSON
---

Valkey-JSON is a Valkey module written in C++ that provides native JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) support for Valkey. The implementation complies with [RFC7159](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7159.txt) and [ECMA-404](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc7159.txt) JSON data interchange standards. Users can natively store, query, and modify JSON data structures using the JSONPath query language. The query expressions support advanced capabilities including wildcard selections, filter expressions, array slices, union operations, and recursive searches.

## Example Valkey-JSON Commands

> * `JSON.ARRINSERT` inserts one or more values into the array values at path before the index.
> * `JSON.ARRLEN` gets the length of the array at the path.
> * `JSON.GET` gets the serialized JSON at one or multiple paths.
> * `JSON.SET` sets JSON values at the path.

Author: ```suggestion
* `JSON.SET` sets JSON values at the path.
* `JSON.GET` gets the serialized JSON at one or multiple paths.
* `JSON.ARRINSERT` inserts one or more values into the array values at path before the index.
* `JSON.ARRLEN` gets the length of the array at the path.
```

See the [complete list of Valkey-JSON commands](../commands/#json).

## Common use cases for Valkey-JSON

> Valkey-JSON provides an efficient way to store and manipulate structured data. Its key benefits include fast search capabilities and the ability to perform in-place updates to JSON data without needing to overwrite entire documents. These features allow you to efficiently query, modify, and manage complex data structures, making it an ideal choice for applications that require dynamic and flexible data storage.

Author: ```suggestion
Valkey-JSON provides an efficient way to store and manipulate structured data. Its key benefits include fast search and filtering capabilities. It also provides the ability to perform in-place updates to JSON data without needing to overwrite entire documents. These features allow you to efficiently query, modify, and manage complex data structures, making it an ideal choice for applications that require dynamic and flexible data storage.
```

## JSON Properties
 
* Max Depth - The maximum nesting level for JSON objects and arrays. If a JSON object or array contains another object or array, it is considered nested. The default maximum allowed nesting depth is 128. Any attempt to exceed this limit will result in an error. You can adjust this limit using the following command: `CONFIG SET json.max-path-limit <value>` where value is the desired depth limit.

> 

Author: Also add `Document Size Limit` from https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-rfc/blob/main/ValkeyJSON.md#document-size-limit

Reviewer: add the whole paragraph or just a summary?

Author: Just summary

Valkey-JSON leverages RapidJSON, a high-performance JSON parser and generator for C++, chosen for its small footprint and exceptional performance and memory efficiency. As a header-only library with no external dependencies, RapidJSON provides robust Unicode support while maintaining a compact memory profile of just 16 bytes per JSON value on most 32/64-bit machines.

## Example Valkey-JSON Commands

* `JSON.ARRINSERT` inserts one or more values into the array values at path before the index.
* `JSON.MGET` gets serialized JSON objects from multiple document keys at the specified path.
* `JSON.MSET` sets JSON values for multiple keys.
* `JSON.ARRLEN` gets the length of the array at the path.

See the [complete list of Valkey-JSON commands](../commands/#json).

> ## JSON Properties

Author: added

* Document Structure - Valkey-JSON supports deeply nested structures including objects and arrays, allowing for complex data representation within a single key. 
 

> * Max Depth - The maximum nesting level for JSON objects and arrays. If a JSON object or array contains another object or array, it is considered nested. The maximum allowed nesting depth is 128. Any attempt to exceed this limit will result in an error.

Reviewer 2: This is a configuration, we should include how to change this.

Author: Added configs and how to set these

* Path Syntax - Valkey JSON supports two types of path syntaxes:
    * Enhanced syntax 

>     * Restricted syntax

Author: added

| JSON.MSET          |       |   y    |       |   y   |        |
| JSON.NUMINCRBY     |       |   y    |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.NUMMULTBY     |       |   y    |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.OBJKEYS       |   y   |        |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.OBJLEN        |   y   |        |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.RESP          |   y   |        |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.SET           |       |   y    |       |   y   |        |
| JSON.STRAPPEND     |       |   y    |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.STRLEN        |   y   |        |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.TOGGLE        |       |   y    |   y   |       |        |
| JSON.TYPE          |   y   |        |   y   |       |        |

## Command Syntax

Most commands require a key name as the first argument. Some commands also have a path argument. The path argument defaults to the root if it's optional and not provided.

**Notation**
* Required arguments are enclosed in angle brackets. For example: <key> 
* Optional arguments are enclosed in square brackets. For example: [path]
* Additional optional arguments are indicated by an ellipsis ("…"). For example: [json ...]

## Path Syntax

> Redis JSON supports two kinds of path syntaxes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Valkey JSON supports two kinds of path syntaxes:
```

* **Enhanced syntax** – Follows the JSONPath syntax described by [Goessner](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/), as shown in the following table. We've reordered and modified the descriptions in the table for clarity.
* **Restricted syntax** – Has limited query capabilities.

> If a query path starts with `$`, it uses the enhanced syntax. Otherwise, the restricted syntax is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a query path starts with `$`, it uses the enhanced syntax. Otherwise, the restricted syntax is used. It is recommended you use the enhanced syntax for new development.
```

| `'$..book[0:4]'`                                                  | Books from index 0 to 3 (ending index is not inclusive).                                      |
| `'$..book[0:4:2]'`                                                | Books at index 0 and 2.                                                                       |
| `'$..book[?(@.isbn)]'`                                            | All books with an ISBN number.                                                                |
| `'$..book[?(@.price < 10)]'`                                      | All books cheaper than $10.                                                                   |
| `'$..book[?(@["price"] < 10)]'`                                   | All books cheaper than $10. (alternate syntax)                                                |
| `'$..book[?(@.["price"] < 10)]'`                                  | All books cheaper than $10. (alternate syntax)                                                |
| `'$..book[?(@.price >= 10 && @.price <= 100)]'`                   | All books in the price range of $10 to $100, inclusive.                                       |

> | `'$..book[?(@.sold == true || @.in-stock == false)]'`            | All books sold or out of stock.                                                               |

Author: ```suggestion
| `'$..book[?(@.sold == true \|\| @.in-stock == false)]'`            | All books sold or out of stock.                                                               |
```

Reviewer: Good catch.

| `[ , ]`               | Union operator.                                                   |
| `[start:end:step]`    | Array slice operator.                                             |
| `?()`                 | Applies a filter (script) expression to the current array or object. |
| `()`                  | Filter expression.                                                |
| `@`                   | Used in filter expressions that refer to the current node being processed. |
| `==`                  | Equal to, used in filter expressions.                             |
| `!=`                  | Not equal to, used in filter expressions.                         |
| `>`                   | Greater than, used in filter expressions.                         |
| `>=`                  | Greater than or equal to, used in filter expressions.             |
| `<`                   | Less than, used in filter expressions.                            |
| `<=`                  | Less than or equal to, used in filter expressions.                |
| `&&`                  | Logical AND, used to combine multiple filter expressions.         |

> | `\|\|`                  | Logical OR, used to combine multiple filter expressions.        |

Author: ```suggestion
| `||`                  | Logical OR, used to combine multiple filter expressions.        |
```

Reviewer: We need the escape chracters otherwise the logical or symbol won't show up.

Author: on the web page?

Author: Cool then

Reviewer: Yeah I tested it locally

**Examples** \
The following examples are built on [Goessner's](https://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) example XML data, which we have modified by adding additional fields.

```
{ "store": {
    "book": [ 
      { "category": "reference",
        "author": "Nigel Rees",
        "title": "Sayings of the Century",
        "price": 8.95,
        "in-stock": true,
        "sold": true
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "Evelyn Waugh",
        "title": "Sword of Honour",
        "price": 12.99,
        "in-stock": false,
        "sold": true
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "Herman Melville",
        "title": "Moby Dick",
        "isbn": "0-553-21311-3",
        "price": 8.99,
        "in-stock": true,
        "sold": false
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "J. R. R. Tolkien",
        "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
        "isbn": "0-395-19395-8",
        "price": 22.99,
        "in-stock": false,
        "sold": false
      }
    ],
    "bicycle": {
      "color": "red",
      "price": 19.95,
      "in-stock": true,
      "sold": false
    }
  }
}
```

> | Path                                                              | Description                                                                                   |
> |-------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | `$.store.book[*].author`                                          | The authors of all books in the store.|
> | `$..author`                                                       | All authors.                          |
> | `$.store.*`                                                       | All members of the store.             |
> | `$["store"].*`                                                    | All members of the store.             |
> | `$.store..price`                                                  | The price of everything in the store. |
> | `$..*`                                                            | All recursive members of the JSON structure. |
> | `$..book[*]`                                                      | All books.                            |
> | `$..book[0]`                                                      | The first book.                       |
> | `$..book[-1]`                                                     | The last book.                        |
> | `$..book[0:2]`                                                    | The first two books.                  |
> | `$..book[0,1]`                                                    | The first two books.                  |
> | `$..book[0:4]`                                                    | Books from index 0 to 3 (ending index is not inclusive). |
> | `$..book[0:4:2]`                                                  | Books at index 0 and 2.               |
> | `$..book[?(@.isbn)]`                                              | All books with an ISBN number.        |
> | `$..book[?(@.price<10)]`                                          | All books cheaper than $10.           |
> | `'${..book[?(@.price < 10)]}'`                                    | All books cheaper than $10. (The path must be quoted if it contains white spaces.) |
> | `'${..book[?(@["price"] < 10)]}'`                                 | All books cheaper than $10.           |
> | `'${..book[?(@.["price"] < 10)]}'`                                | All books cheaper than $10.           |
> | `$..book[?(@.price >= 10 && @.price <= 100)]`                     | All books in the price range of $10 to $100, inclusive. |
> | `'${..book[?(@.price >= 10 && @.price <= 100)]}'`                 | All books in the price range of $10 to $100, inclusive. (The path must be quoted if it contains white spaces.) |
> | `$..book[?(@.sold==true \|\| @.in-stock == false)]`               | All books sold or out of stock.       |
> | `'${..book[?(@.sold == true \|\| @.in-stock == false)]}'`         | All books sold or out of stock. (The path must be quoted if it contains white spaces.) |
> | `'${.store.book[?(@.["category"] == "fiction")]}'`                | All books in the fiction category.    |
> | `'${.store.book[?(@.["category"] != "fiction")]}'`                | All books in nonfiction categories.   |

Author: ```suggestion
| Path                                                              | Description                                                                                   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `'$.store.book[*].author'`                                        | The authors of all books in the store.                                                        |
| `'$..author'`                                                     | All authors.                                                                                  |
| `'$.store.*'`                                                     | All members of the store.                                                                     |
| `'$["store"].*'`                                                  | All members of the store.                                                                     |
| `'$.store..price'`                                                | The price of everything in the store.                                                         |
| `'$..*'`                                                          | All recursive members of the JSON structure.                                                  |
| `'$..book[*]'`                                                    | All books.                                                                                     |
| `'$..book[0]'`                                                    | The first book.                                                                               |
| `'$..book[-1]'`                                                   | The last book.                                                                                |
| `'$..book[0:2]'`                                                  | The first two books.                                                                          |
| `'$..book[0,1]'`                                                  | The first two books.                                                                          |
| `'$..book[0:4]'`                                                  | Books from index 0 to 3 (ending index is not inclusive).                                      |
| `'$..book[0:4:2]'`                                                | Books at index 0 and 2.                                                                       |
| `'$..book[?(@.isbn)]'`                                            | All books with an ISBN number.                                                                |
| `'$..book[?(@.price < 10)]'`                                      | All books cheaper than $10.                                                                   |
| `'$..book[?(@["price"] < 10)]'`                                   | All books cheaper than $10. (alternate syntax)                                                |
| `'$..book[?(@.["price"] < 10)]'`                                  | All books cheaper than $10. (alternate syntax)                                                |
| `'$..book[?(@.price >= 10 && @.price <= 100)]'`                   | All books in the price range of $10 to $100, inclusive.                                       |
| `'$..book[?(@.sold == true || @.in-stock == false)]'`            | All books sold or out of stock.                                                               |
| `'$.store.book[?(@.["category"] == "fiction")]'`                  | All books in the fiction category.                                                            |
| `'$.store.book[?(@.["category"] != "fiction")]'`                  | All books in nonfiction categories.                                                           |
```

"[{\"price\":15,\"sold\":false,\"title\":\"abc\"}]"
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET k1 '$.books[?(@.title == "abc")]'
[{"price":15,"sold":false,"title":"abc"}]

127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.SET k2 . '[1,2,3,4,5]'
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET k2 $.*.[?(@>2)]
"[3,4,5]"
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET k2 '$.*.[?(@ > 2)]'
"[3,4,5]"

127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.SET k3 . '[true,false,true,false,null,1,2,3,4]'
OK
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET k3 $.*.[?(@==true)]
"[true,true]"
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET k3 '$.*.[?(@ == true)]'
"[true,true]"
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET k3 $.*.[?(@>1)]
"[2,3,4]"
127.0.0.1:6379> JSON.GET k3 '$.*.[?(@ > 1)]'
"[2,3,4]"
```

**Restricted Syntax Symbols and Expressions**

| Symbol/Expression     | Description                                                       |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `.` or `[]`           | Child operator.                                                   |
| `[]`                  | Array subscript operator. Index is 0-based.                       |

| Path                                  | Description                        |
|---------------------------------------|------------------------------------|

> | `.store.book[0].author`               | The author of the first book.      |
> | `.store.book[-1].author`              | The author of the last book.       |
> | `.address.city`                       | City name.                         |
> | `["store"]["book"][0]["title"]`       | The title of the first book.       |
> | `["store"]["book"][-1]["title"]`      | The title of the last book.        |

Author: ```suggestion
| `'.store.book[0].author'`               | The author of the first book.      |
| `'.store.book[-1].author'`              | The author of the last book.       |
| `'.address.city'`                       | City name.                         |
| `'["store"]["book"][0]["title"]'`       | The title of the first book.       |
| `'["store"]["book"][-1]["title"]'`      | The title of the last book.        |
```
